# Mediocre writing skills, just a chronic overthinker

I started as a silly reader, reading Tagalog romance pocketbooks. Somehow, I found myself reading those stories that I still remember now \- the romantic comedic scenes, sweet nothings, and what-not that probably exists in reality, but most often, it's not now that I'm an adult, capable of discerning the truth, lies and in between, fantasy or even reality. But I always gravitated to short stories since it was my humble beginnings as a reader, flipping the pages of government-owned and hands-me-down textbooks to check out stories, and I had fun reading them whenever I had leisure time. There were no phones or other 'entertainment' to distract me, so I had to find ways to entertain myself- playing, collecting cards, wandering around the neighborhood, conversing with my friends, and such. What if I write something? Knowing that I have a hyperactive imagination and daydream a lot, why not? Then I scribbled on composition notebooks and even printed pictures of character models, writing stories from the product of my imagination \- so unrealistic since I wrote stories that I was not familiar with: the notions of romance and love between two people. Those humble and silly beginnings influenced me in some ways when it comes to my writing skills, and even now, Years have passed by, and I have gradually improved my writing \- my style and my voice. I have a writing voice, but I don't think I have a stable writing voice as well as a stable writing style \- struggling in the age of mainstream writing, writing marketing, literary contests, and constant battle in publications digitally and traditionally, but does it really matter a lot? Well before, the candle of dreams and aspirations to publish burned out, and all that was left was my drive and my passion to continue writing despite the setbacks and circumstances.

I pictured the materials needed for a book to be made \- from trees and other raw materials that involve nature and I thought that I would only waste these materials for a pop fiction book that the masses would like but the critics would frown upon. So, I just stick to my little corner, freewriting and creating flawed stories with flawed characters. As a chronic overthinker, there's no moment of peace when it comes to showcasing my writings on the internet \- thinking that somebody will comment on something that can lower my self-confidence as a writer. I compared my writings to other writers who are more advanced in their choice of words and expressive in their writings because they can relay their thoughts, emotions, and imagination and find the right words for it. I know the struggle of finding the right words when you want to, but you cannot for various reasons. And sometimes, I don't have to search for reasons why, but I need to find ways to get back my drive, the fire in me. The fire that burns before is so strong that it deteriorates as time goes by. Comparisons aren't good when it means downplaying my writing skills. Writers are different from each other, no matter how each of them influences other people through their books.

I am fully aware that in the vast world of the internet and in the world, I'm just one of those people who love words and express themselves through words instead of speaking. I am one of the writers out there who want to have a reader's community who loves my works, but I guess I can't handle the attention, yet I appreciate the support and the fact that someone out there read my not-so-worth-reading entries (in my opinion). As a chronic overthinker, I worry about my grammar, the structure of my sentences, whether they are readable or not, or fragmented, or if the thought is not complete. However, do I have to box myself with these rules? The intent of my writing or my write-up is important, or I vent out whatever I am thinking at the moment (just plain overthinking). My mind works endlessly, like a train 24/7, and yes, even in my dreams. I am like an animal digging on the ground, finding worms, decayed branches, rocks, or whatever. The digging is very intense, and I anxiously recollect and create multiple terrible scenarios. What if I write something that is inaccurate and unrealistic? Because I am so lazy with researching stuff, and I write with no clear direction, aimlessly, and just go with the flow. Due to my inexperience, I only collect information from my research and surfing, based upon my observations with people close to me or even when I people-watch.

I can still say that I'm mediocre \- a mediocre person who loves to write.

