# **Catharsis: Provoking Strong, Negative Emotions**

According to [Dictionary.com](http://Dictionary.com), catharsis is the purging of emotions or relieving of emotional tensions, especially through certain kinds of art, such as tragedy or music. In the psychiatry context, it encourages the discharge of pent-up emotions to alleviate symptoms of a certain mental health condition. In literature, catharsis is used to evoke strong, negative emotions from the reader or audience through tragic endings and intense emotional stories.

Looking back, my first flash fiction is a bittersweet love story wherein the guy fell in love with his friend’s girlfriend, and even though he’s married, when recalling that bittersweet memory, he found himself blushing than when he was with his wife. When I introduced that flash fiction to my classmate, she threw the paper and complained about why it ended that way. I’m glad that she was affected by it and that my writing was effective in provoking strong emotions in my readers and classmates. When writing flash fiction, I always write bittersweet stories \- like someone died, someone mourned for the death of a person precious to them, two people who loved each other but not the end game, and so on. My latest entries here, one-shots/short stories have bittersweet endings, and I like writing them that way. But that was just a surface level of catharsis. Films and movies show the highs of the main protagonist \- they bask in their glory and win at life only then does the writer or director strip it off and make them feel sorrow, pain, and struggle with their own demons or circumstances, dying alone or dying together with their loved one (like the tragic ending of Romeo and Juliet).

Although tragic stories, novels or love stories evoke pity, sympathy, or empathy for the characters, they can help the readers or the audience to release complex emotions. I remember reading Norwegian Wood by Haruki Murakami, I felt pity for the main protagonist. The complex emotions I earned from reading that novel extended to a week of pondering and spacing out. The mental health themes, depression, and alienation hit close to home. I barely touched my other readings because I was affected by that book. The book ended vaguely for me, with no positive or happy ending for the protagonist that I’d wished at first, but given the setting and overall atmosphere of the book, it’s nearly impossible.

I have a friend that I dragged to watch free Korean films/movies. The movies we watched entail catharsis, but we had different experiences. For the first movie, he knew that it would end in an open-ended manner and it did. And he was so frustrated and that was also my sentiment but as we analyzed the first movie, it’s very predictable. The second movie ended with a bittersweet ending despite the bright and funny atmosphere. The third movie literally shocked the whole audience, including me. My best friend? He just laughed and nonchalantly told me that he expected it \- the turning point and the three hundred sixty degrees turn of events. But all of those movies connote a hint of our reality, that fictional characters from a movie or film are a representation of our experiences as human beings. There’s life and death, unexpected occurrences, a firm and tragic decision that affects the course of your life, happy moments that are only temporary, and the cruel reality and world we live in. We are just human beings meant to live in this world.

I am a vivid dreamer, a daydreamer most of the time. I may space out when I am walking or on duty for a traditional job because I’m busy retracing my ideas for my future writings \- writings that evoke emotional truth \- related to mental health and the course of our life \- happy and sad. I have a desire to create a masterpiece or story that will leave a feeling of contentment and alleviation of negative feelings despite the heavy themes and concepts. That’s a way of life. A part of our reality. I love writing stories about life in general \- be it sad or with humorous moments. I love writing about a community-knit village where people help each other and look after each other. Far from the isolation and loneliness I felt from the fast-paced city.

One of my goals as a writer is to evoke feelings and emotions in my readers so that someday, they see my writings as their breather or something that resonates with their soul (it’s too ideal) but I hope they find an escape with my stories or writings. I’m just one of the writers in this world with this humble dream of sharing my works with people, even strangers. Hoping that they have a positive experience reading my works. Writing stories is my kind of escape, relaying my emotions through the inner struggles of my characters, playing god of their fates, and putting an end to their inner turmoil \- death or another chance in life. I am a selfish writer who wants to narrate what I want but sometimes I bend to the decisions of characters \- seeing them as separate persons.

I was CatharticSiren before I became ‘sailerstories’ or ‘12cm’. I may have a penchant for anything related to mental health dilemmas or the purgation of strong, intense emotions in my stories but I still have my daydreamer and funny side, so I abandoned that username and changed to sailerstories. And now, I’m content with my penname as a writer, both a fiction writer (sailerstories) and non-fiction/creative nonfiction. Now, I’m in the process of retracing my backlogs and notes where I wrote my concepts, plot ideas, and lots of vivid dreams or ideas I collected. And I hope my lazy writer self will turn my ideas into a brand new story or perhaps an excerpt.

