# Unfinished passion projects \- busy, busy, as a bee… 

*There are lots of undiscovered corners that I need to explore before I bleed my ink.*

Tons of raw ideas, concepts from random moments of daily life, daydreaming notions, and more. I have lots to tell and write, but I always fall short \- no time to delve into my writing plans, procrastination, perfectionism, and insufficient time. Time is gold, and I need more time to focus on what I love \- writing. but as a corporate slave, it wasn't easy to balance the work and life aspects. I have a hard time separating both of them since I am a writer, both personally and professionally. I have to traverse the rivers of creativity and marketing/technical. It was so overwhelming at first, and I needed to adjust my writing style \- losing my writing voice in the process. I felt like I was on a boat, standing in front, not knowing where I needed to go, and was confused about going the right way \- going with the flow or going the opposite way. But do I have to make sense of it all? At some point, I don't know if I'm doing the right thing. I'm confused. 

Although I have lots of things to do, it's always expectation versus reality. I may visualize the outcomes or the results if I'm done with my passion projects or stories that I want to finalize until the last chapters, but somehow, I fall short. I have lots of discontinued stories and drafts that were put on the back burner for a long time. I don't know what to do with them anymore. At some point, I picked them up, and then later on, I had to pause. It's been two years since I haven't written a novel or even a decent novelette or novella that I will be proud of. or maybe it's because I don't have a reader base? But deep inside, I know more than that. I was the last point of asking for validation from strangers/readers on the internet. The desire to publish ran out \- the thought of meeting people who admired my books or stories seemed overwhelming for a lone wolf like me \- but it didn't appeal much to me right now. I want to get started and finish my passion projects at my own pace. 

in retrospect, do I need more time, or do I need motivation and inspiration to go on? I am still in my burnt-out era as an office girl and a confused adult at that. It's too painful to write lively stories for now, and all I can think of is to finish what I started. My eight hours during weekdays are spent on my job, and I am paid for it \- to afford temporary happiness \- cute and things that I need in my present moment. But does it really matter? Yes, as of now. I need to experience new experiences to be content or happy even though the clouds are still there at the end of it. Waiting to let go of all of the heavy burdens that I carried along for years \- unconsciously or subconsciously. 

Busy, busy, busy, but as I reflect on it, it's not all about making enough time but a deeper state of mind where you only want to scribble and bleed the ink until it runs out \- until the thirst in you has satiated. Until it doesn't hurt anymore. But my mind is a whole kind of mess \- a different kind of mess, perhaps. It felt like the old times when I was running away from nothingness in the middle of the night or at 2 AM, listening to the raindrops falling on the rusty rooftop of my neighbor. Sometimes, I wanted to fly with my imagination, where I'm free to be anything. Maybe that's why I am a writer. I have had many versions of myself in my imagination, no matter how dull-looking or boring I am personally. I have this main character syndrome in my head and get lost in the stories that I created for myself.

Guilty as charged, I inserted myself (my qualities, likes, and dislikes) in my characters and even snatched the qualities of the people I met or met. This deep sadness and painful baggage that I carried for so long reflected some of my writings. As an imperfect being in this universe, I long to express what's hidden. I don't know how to do it or where to start again.