---
layout: post
title: Embracing Sensitivity 
subtitle: 
cover-img: /assets/img/dummy.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/dummy.png
share-img: /assets/img/dummy.jpg
comments: false
tags: 
author: Sailer
category: short stories
---

# A Part of Who I Am

At midnight, the physical sensations seem more noticeable and intense, the fast beating of my heart; the sweaty hands; the pulsing in my veins; and that annoying static noise that breaks the silence in the room. Apart from that, the feeling of falling from a precipice or drowning in a dark, deep ocean describes the emotional turmoil happening inwardly. These kinds of experiences are my night occasions, like a room that’s too dark, hidden, and bruised, and sometimes too complex to embrace it. Let it flow like the waters on the river or else, everything will just shut down unconsciously. 

There are an accumulation of simple habits and experiences that prove the sensitivity I have in me. Living in a society where rationality, logic, and structured norms tell me to shut off my emotions, where objectivity rules out instead of the subjectivity of my own emotions. Emotion is a daily experience and being a highly sensitive individual (which I am still embracing) can be too overwhelming at times. The highs are too high and the lows are too low. There are moments when it’s difficult to articulate my thoughts and emotions since explaining it in a logical way seems complicated, so I keep it that way. 

How often do I find myself easily disturbed by horror and action movies with lots of bombing, shooting, blood, and even seeing injections terrifies me? How often do I find myself teary-eyed when I hear sad and tragic stories, sad music, touching and heartwarming movies, the simple gestures of humanity, and others’ pain, my friend’s pain? How do I often myself get overwhelmed by someone who’s carrying a lot of baggage in their life? How often do I find myself feeling jumpy and surprised when I hear loud honking, approaching vehicles on the streets, and annoying noises of chalk, markers, and metal? How do I find myself exiting an event subtly because I am so tired and just want to rest? Easily drained from lots of scenes happening around me. I observed a lot of my surroundings and sometimes, I am just living in my head—dealing with thousands of thoughts and unreal scenarios. At first, I concluded that it was just probably nervousness and I’m just being irrationally sensitive.  

Looking back and seeing myself in a different light, maybe I was just afraid to express my thoughts and emotions since my mind was thinking that people wouldn’t understand it or validate it. Emotionally weak and my emotions are all over the place, I’ve been told that many times, but do I see it as a weakness? Are emotions considered weak for a highly sensitive individual like me? Emotions are part of my identity and I can’t just put it away in a corner. These are not just shallow emotions but big, strong, and complicated emotions not many people are experiencing on a daily basis. Sometimes, there are moments I try to detach myself from these overwhelming emotions and exercise the objectivity I have left in me. How can you deny that part of yourself just because the other side of the brain tells you to shut this off? 

Lately, encountering the word ’emotional sensitivity’ paints a distinct picture in my mind that pops up a light bulb. What have I been doing for so long? Ignoring my emotions and seeing them as a representation of a weakness? As an individual who wants to feel authentic and seek authentic experience, every emotion is felt intensely and deeply. That tiny sprout has been growing slowly in this garden of mine, overwhelmed with blooming flowers and thick vines. It stuck there since emotions can be complex and drowning, but there’s a splendor in it that needed to be explored and discovered. 

**Connecting with others** 

Empathy is felt when you connect to others and put yourself in their shoes. The difference between feeling empathy and sympathy is feeling the emotions of others and at times, it can be overwhelming. You have to know your emotions apart from the emotions you are experiencing in their shoes. 

The baggage they’re carrying is huge, dark, and full of thorns and holes, but still, I am not afraid to face those since pain, grief, and suffering are things I feel when I am at my lowest moments. All I can offer to people is a safe space where they can freely express their thoughts and emotions without being judged for being too rational or too emotional but I want to let people know that I am not a doormat. Being able to know the emotions plastered on a person’s face can be quite simple and complex at the same time, a person can be happy while wearing a sad smile and a sad pair of eyes. A person can be happy and sad at the same time or smiling despite the turmoil building up inside them and you can just observe the body language, the way their laugh sounds to your ears, the way they communicate with words, or just the silence between them and yourself. Human beings show a part of themselves and hide a part of themselves as well. They show a part of themselves unexpectedly to a person who is dear to them and to a person they expected to understand their situation. We have our own beliefs, traditions, and values in life anyway. We can’t force anyone to bend to accommodate your values and beliefs. We can’t force anyone to shut off a part of themselves just because it’s not what your mind built. 

I thought I judge a person easily, but when I detach myself from how I picture myself in my mind, I don’t really judge people easily, regardless of their circumstances. I listen a lot to people’s stories, the details, and the experiences they express without even realizing they overshare. I admire people who express their thoughts, emotions, and even their embarrassing and cringy experiences to others without a filter. Just being true to themselves and I told a person about it that being true to yourself matters a lot. Under that old tree, leaves swayed by the early summer breeze, I’m authentically freeing my thoughts to someone to make him feel understood since people misunderstand his behaviors. 

Life is changing and there’s nothing permanent. Even nature changes. We walk on different paths and as we warp into the flowing time, we find ourselves reaching different dreams and goals in life. Even if we take a different path now, there are still people and the feeling and attachment you have with them remains the same. They find other friends, form groups and bond with them, go on outings, venture into new experiences, or level up their growth and career, yet they come back and drop the bombs and emotionally damaging experiences on me. There are countless moments when they confide in me and here I am, an instant therapist and human diary. I have no qualms about it, knowing that they have someone they can trust with their deep, darkest thoughts and insights in life. Maybe, I am just on the lookout for people who are dear to me, reaching out to them and making them feel understood despite their situations. 

There’s that bittersweet feeling when I graduated and one of my longest friends cried at the sight of my graduation picture even though she’s faraway. She knew the darkest moments of my life, that troubling and debilitating experience of mine that became a part of who I am now. She knew how I suffered and I knew deep inside of me that I am suffering at her low moments, and I don’t mind experiencing her lows and highs as long as I am a strong, supportive system to her. It is a friendship that I treasure deeply. I’ve been into superficial and conditional friendships that I exited and if it hurts me a lot, I walk away—building a wall and space where I can only offer what they have to offer or how they treat me. When I love a friend, I love deeply and loyally, and when I notice something is off, I disintegrate little by little from their life. 

A therapist. A human diary. A listening ear. A well where you can blurt out your thoughts unexpectedly. That’s me (according to some people). I asked another friend of mine if he told his experiences and thoughts to others, said truthfully that he could only confess it to me and I realized how I withdraw a lot and become a closed person for others. It’s like I express what’s inside of me once-in-a-blue moon. 

There can be moments that you are getting closer to them once you truly accept the emotions that cripples you at nights; the thoughts that were bothering you from time to time, and the abstract ideas waiting to become a productive outlet. The bond is getting stronger and I can’t be any happier if I put that ‘box’ in the deep recesses of my heart. I can be a child-like individual swooning over cute and adorable things my eyes are seeing and at the same time, a retiree tired of humanity and just wanting to go back to shell. I’m glad that over the years, I am opening up and don’t bottle up everything. 

Expressing your anger, frustration, sadness, and disappointment is challenging when you are picturing what others think of you after you express it. Sensitive individuals express it differently and more likely they express it creatively, through music, arts, literature, and stimulating activities. I am that too. That’s why I write everything where a paper or a notebook (not a human being) knows your thoughts, ideas, and concepts in life. Everything. Finding a person or a healthy community that fosters your individuality and growth seems a far-fetched dream for others. It’s more on connecting yourself to others and being aware of your values and emotions at the same time. Maybe people are looking for a non-judgmental space where they can be just themselves. Sometimes, advice is not needed, just your presence, treating them as a human equal to you, susceptible to shortcomings and mistakes. 

I can sense when something is off and I tend to be silent or retreat away from the tension. There’s a sickening feeling inside me when my values are trampled or my actions don’t resonate with my principles and values so I have to reassess and re-evaluate my life over and over again. 

# 

# **Use Your Head, Not Your Emotions**

“Use your head. Not your emotions.”

This phrase came from one of my mom’s friend and inwardly, I shook my head in dismay for myself because sometimes, I didn’t use my head that much. I have moments of rebellion, driven by emotions but I knew myself that I can be in between – both emotional and rational or analytical. I may have outbursts of emotions but most of my decisions in life were analyzed intently for days or even for months. I have to consider the pros and cons.

In my mom’s friend perspective, she has a point knowing that emotions can be destructive when it comes ‘love’ but only if it’s becoming so irrational that it doesn’t make sense anymore. To stay like that and defend something that’s not good for you and your future. That’s her point and I totally agreed despite being highly sensitive and an emotional person at that. I’m always eager to listen to other people’s stories, their viewpoints, their story, and their opinions and wisdom on so many things. So I don’t mind listening for hours and giving my opinion and such. I’m easily affected when it’s sad, problematic, and tragic but I always separate my own emotions and emotions that I gather from their stories.

I have to separate them to know if I’m only having those emotions because I sympathize or empathize with them or if it affects me personally. It’s like watching a melodrama film and crying over it because the ending is so heartbreaking and yet you can’t do anything about it. The least is to accept and thought of it as a fiction or a work of fiction.

But I’ve been repressed in childhood until my teenage years and when I snapped, it took almost four years to recover from the downfall. Was it good to deny my emotions frequently back then because using them all the time could be a sign of a weakness? Or I was just ignoring my emotions because it was so negative? But bottling it up for years and had symptoms every now and then from freshman highschool to senior highschool resulted into lethal results that cost my sanity. I was denying what I felt at that moment. Denying that I’m still a human being capable of experiencing strong and big emotions. That I need to process it and feel it deeply because my lows are too lows and my highs are too high. Denying it would mean not accepting that part of myself.

Later on, I realized that I am a sponge and soak up everything, I need alone time to collect my thoughts and regulate my fluctuating emotions. I need to do that because I know myself that emotions are not always right and accurate so I need to be level-headed at times. As a sensitive person, I need more alone time from all the noise and happenings around me. I am not a fan of crowds. Even though it’s exciting to go in a concert of my fave artists, I would always consider my experience if I’m in that event – I know that I’ll get drained and will feel suffocated from all of it – the loud music, the screaming of fellow fans, the energy, and lots of sensory sensations that will overwhelm me in the long run. Experiencing overarousal, picking emotions from others and their energy, it sapped my remaining energy.

I need to escape from that and choose people who won’t sap my remaining energy or my energy. I feel emotions intensely and deeply and it’s very uncomfortable since it manifest physically,  I’m very nervous at times and feel afraid when over-aroused by the things around and when I’m dejected or affected by a certain matter or conflict, my stomach would react as strongly. When I feel hurt, angry or feel other’s pain or wound, I need to cry to let it out because the emotions are so strong.

Use your head. Not your emotions. But it doesn’t mean you have to deny or invalidate your emotions all the time. Emotions are there for a reason and because you are a flawed human being, you are capable of analyzing and validating it – no matter how irrational it is. I may pick up emotional nuances around me, figuring out the emotional truth and when it’s too much – I have to separate what I’m feeling personally and what I pick up from others. I may be highly emotional but I’m also highly analytical – connecting the dots and understanding the nuances around me. What I’m feeling so strongly may suggest a whole different meaning. Only then, I will realize that a strong feeling or emotions tell me something beyond the truth of what I believe in or not.

# Healing Myself

In a world full of Sensors, Judgers, Thinkers, Extroverts, being an idealistic INFP is a challenge, knowing that we embrace authenticity and being true to ourselves almost all the time. But not just being an INFP, but also an empath who is easily carried away by others’ feelings or emotions, it’s a challenge to detach oneself. As an individualist, a 4w5 at that, I always value my private space and alone time as well as my artistic view and ideas. Others would call me that I’m weird and say that I have my own world – a rich inner world that is indescribable to explain even to my close friends so I chose to write and do something creatively – like crocheting, journaling, or even collecting art materials or stationery. But a turbulent type, and having an enneagram prone to melancholy, deep sadness, alienation, and detachment, being a pessimist is inevitable and even a choice because I feel my emotions and feelings deeply. Although I am attuned to my emotions, as a reserved and quiet child, I’m more prone to being pessimistic. Even at a young age, I always thought of catastrophic turn of events. I have low self-esteem and self-confidence but I always keep my emotions and inner turmoil. No one knew even my closest friend back then who was usually the outcast in our class.  When I’m discouraged, hurt, dejected, sad, or even angry and want to cry, I just keep it to myself until it passes away. I’m still like that until now. I heal myself. I have to feel everything deeply. I let the storms stay with me for days, breaking the branches, blowing harsh winds, and the endless downpour. The storms can even took for months. But sometimes, it’s like winter, barren and bleak, just a desolate sky and mountains and houses filled with snow. White may symbolize peace but sometimes, when it’s gray and white around you, it’s hollow and unknown. I don’t know exactly what I’m feeling but I have an awareness of the weightlessness. But despite of it all, I choose to feel that winter or stormy season, even the mellow rain of my thoughts and emotions.

But seasons change, and so do my fluctuating emotions and feelings. I have to get by everyday, letting the ups and downs pass by like flowing wind. I may have my fair share of too highs and too lows, but I always think that choosing to feel it means accepting my sensitivity, and not discarding it like before because what I feel is a weakness. I always love the renewed sense of self of spring, as if starting a new – a brand new day filled with hope. Embracing the spring of your life is a little step to embracing the beauty of living again, over and over again. We die in winter, and the leaves fall in autumn, accepting our downfall and letting go of the things that hold us back from growing and living in this world. Then, we will start renewing at the end of the winter season and we will flourish soon in spring.

Life is always unpredictable and we don’t have to punish ourselves all the time for feeling this way or that, we are humans capable of thinking and feeling and making life-changing or small decisions in our life. As a healer in MBTI and an individualist 4, healing myself may be quite challenging, knowing that I have to reframe my negative thoughts or my negative outlook in life in order to enjoy and appreciate the little things and be happy. I may empathize with my friends or other people, even if they have different or similar circumstances, I put myself in their shoes, and encourage them to pursue their passions or support them in my own way. And I know that even if they encourage me or support me, it’s always us and our faith to heal and recover from the inner storms in our lives. The help from our loved ones also makes a difference. They’re there for a reason, for a purpose, and for being part of our lives. But it doesn’t mean to stay in a toxic friendship or toxic relationship. Leave when it’s unhealthy for your well-being.

Currently, on surviving my mental health, I know that living little by little and be happy on little things may take a considerable time for me to recover. I’m still healing from the remnants of my past and my inner storms in my present moment. It’s an ongoing healing for years.  I still keep fighting my demons for myself, for my loved ones, and for people who believe in me. And I hope, I recover with a renewed sense of self, purpose, and a stronger faith that I’ll overcome this.

And I hope you too. Embracing sensitivity is an acceptance of being an empath, a human with deep and complex emotions, and a person driven by values and purpose to live harmoniously in this ever-changing world.

