---
layout: post
title: Sogod, Cebu: Good Conversations Can Last Until Midnight
subtitle: 
cover-img: /assets/img/sogod banner.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/sogod banner.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/sogod banner.jpg
comments: false
tags: [travel]
author: Sailer
---

**I’m glad I have work friends.**  
While on relapse, it’s really important to reach out to your friends and family, gathering moral and emotional support who can understand your situation. Also, when you have work friends you can vibe with, they can ask you if they plan an outing, and I did a couple of times – saying ‘yes’ whenever I wanted to because I needed the detox or destressing from our stressful work. Well, it’s very stressful for me because of the fast transition, swift changes, and some colleagues that I didn’t want to see or even interact with due to some reasons.

Moving on, I’d said yes to our outing this July and I even asked my younger sister if it was okay to go with them. It’s been two months since the Compostela trip, so I agreed despite my maintenance and my mental health. When it comes to mental health, I’m open now, and I don’t hesitate to tell my story to others, not because I want to inspire or motivate them or whatever, but because I have this urge to let them understand my side. Occasionally, I told them about that, and I even reached out to our HR to be with them even just once a week – Friday, perhaps if our supervisor permits me to.

**The morning before**  
Little by little, I packed my things. I washed the clothes that I would want to wear on our outing. I researched the place, so I didn’t bring my tablet and thank god, I didn’t. I brought the usual black Doughnut backpack with me, my sling bag, and my important things like wallet, cellphone, liniment, charger, and other stuff – a gift from my workmate during our Christmas party. In the end, I didn’t bring a book. After work, I ate and drank my medicine. I slept around seven in the evening and set my phone to alarm. But I woke up 5 minutes before the alarm. I had a jacket with me, a black cap and a white shirt covered in cream-white long sleeves, and my fave peacock blue pants with sandals that made me rethink if I wore the right pair of sandals or the wrong one because of the wounds after that.

I was like a headless chicken who didn’t know if I was taken in the right direction to the North Bus terminal, and I remembered that the terminal was at the back of the SM mall. Fortunately, I found them minutes before the 4 am trip to Sogod. We were done and got on the bus after that.

**the bus trip**  
My workmates pulled an all-nighter in the terminal, lacked sleep, and went there after my shift. I chose to sleep because my body needed an 8-hour sleep, unlike my workmates, who can survive from lack of sleep. Well, a few of them. I realized that there were people who could survive a lack of sleep for days and still be energetic. The bus was non-airconditioned, so the windows were open, and I savored the morning air – cold and refreshing to my skin. Yet, the conductor needed to close the window due to the downpour on the road. Then, I wanted to savor the provincial air again, so I requested to open the window when the rain stopped. I’d love the scenery that I’d seen when the bus passed by – the coastal seas of the different towns and municipalities. Due to the weather, the sea was gray, reflecting the cloudy skies apart from the light to deep blue colors when the sun was out there. Nonetheless, when the dawn broke, the colors of the distant sky were red-orange despite the cloudy and rainy weather.

When there was a stop-over, I went to the CR, it was always uncomfortable to move around when I held on a little longer. We moved past Mandaue, Consolacion, Liloan, Compostela, Danao, Carmen, Catmon and then I was spacing out when the conductor said that we reached our destination – Sogod. We thought we were still in Catmon.

The towns have their own offerings when it comes to nature, especially to us who were used to the noise and the busyness of the cities. Having a provincial detox was a good diversion and one of the ways to alleviate our work and personal stress together with people who have vibes similar to ours. This outing made me realize how valuable moral and emotional support was, and now, I was with them on this journey to destress and refresh ourselves from the nature of the province. Like in Compostela, we went to a place where the signal was not clear, no Wifi, no constant electricity, just the pool, the house in front of vegetation, forest, plants with wildflowers, potted plants, and gumamelas, wooden benches, and ‘lantay. We waited for the pickup to take us there, and with our bag, we carried ourselves to the back of the pickup while others stayed inside. I’d like to ride in a vehicle with open space – open windows and no roof.

We watched the scenery before us. The coconut trees. Different kinds of plants. The cliff. We’d see the landslide-prone sign and flood sign – a prelude to what would happen if there were a big storm or a downpour that drenched the province. Sogod is in the North of Cebu, with the coastal seas from afar and more on mountainsides, rolling hills, and valleys.

We’re so early  
With a couple of jokes and silly conversations on the road, we finally got there at the entrance of Lavalle PH. The barangays and the names of the places there were quite fascinating because they were named after fruit-bearing trees. The spot was elevated, far away from the modern civilization, with a woodsy feel, and was very provincial. There were bugs anywhere – from butterflies, praying mantes, ants that were larger than usual, bettles, and so on. There were cornfields, coconut trees of different families, trees and plants. I noticed that there were no tall buildings in Sogod – only a few establishments and houses on the plains and in the mountains where the Lavalle was located.

Since we were early for five hours, we stayed in a small somewhat cottage, conversing with random topics – from work to personal life. Of course, when we talked about love life, most of them have it, so most of them have the capacity to share, yet some were private, some were expressive, and few (I’m included) had nothing to contribute as of the moment (inexperienced and not a priority). I was probably the only one who had a proper sleep, so most of them wanted to doze off and slacked off the moment the staff allowed us to enter the house. It’s very simple, and we’d witness the guests before us, a mix of boys and girls. At the same time, we were all girls, comfortable with each other.

One of the staff there gave us ripe indian mangoes – a complimentary. I thanked the heavens for giving us a cool, cloudy, and slightly sunny weather – perfect for our outing. When it’s 10 in the morning, the guests went out and the staff cleaned the place – cleaning the pool, kitchen, and replace the towels and beddings. I have an idea because I was a room attendant before.

**The moment we went inside the house**

It’s a provincial house, and what do you expect from a place far away from the ‘poblacion’ and in the heart of the hills and mountains? There was no signal, no steady electricity, and thank goodness, the water was fine and clean, and there was no air conditioner. I expected that because of the exterior of the house, which is wooden and cemented. I was fine with that because I prefer staying in the province with few contacts on my phone. My friends preferred signals and the Internet, but for me, what would be the purpose of nature around us? The place with wooden benches and hang-out spots where we could admire the distant greenery. So, I didn’t put an effort into finding a spot where the signal was strong. I gave up and just used my phone for music.

Thank goodness, I presumed that there was no Internet signal, so I downloaded my favorite songs – mostly Japanese and Korean songs. My dysfunctional earphones couldn’t prevent me from listening and vibing with my offline songs on my phone. I didn’t try to connect to the Internet. I have always loved the idea of putting off and exiting social media and staying away from the Internet while I was busy reading, writing, doing things, or engaging in outdoor activities. There are so many things to do without the involvement of phones and the Internet. But of course, I have to collect books to do that, and it’s an expensive hobby because books are expensive.

At first, I chose the upper deck of the bed. When we went inside, we saw three beds, and one of them had an upper deck. They placed two foam beds in the middle as we rearranged the interior. In the end, I ended up choosing the foam beds. Outside, there’s a small pool with two lounge chairs and a karaoke corner with a long table and wooden chair for us to hang out.

Since most of us stayed overnight in the terminal, they relaxed and slept first while we put on our swimming outfits and soaked ourselves in the cold water of the pool. There was a hanging thing or something that covered the pool from the heat, so I stayed in the corner of the pool with minimal light from the sun to alleviate the coldness I felt. My back ached after swimming in that cute pool, but nonetheless, I enjoyed the cold water while nature surrounded us.

**The older and younger ones**  
We have different personalities, and each of us can be a chill person, a weirdo, a noisy and silent, a girly girl, or a boyish girl. We all have our own tolerance when it comes to stamina. Only a few survive the hard drinks, and a few still last like it didn’t affect them. I, on the other hand, didn’t take even a sip, knowing that I had a maintenance. It’s a nice alibi, yet it’s the truth. I ate chocolate ice cream, and my stomach reacted. I need to watch out for the food that I intake since I’m taking antidepressants. Regardless of that, we had a nice time talking about several topics, even drunken stories. I was merely listening and asking some questions sometimes. You can obviously spot who’s older and younger, and we somehow magnetize with persons closer to our age. Sometimes, it depends on whether we are willing to listen to various topics or subjects or not. It just happens naturally. It was past midnight when we decided to sleep.

**I want to contribute, unlike the last outing trips.**  
The love language that I want to give is quality time, acts of service, and gift-giving. That time, I shared my time, listening to their stories in life and, of course, gossip at work and personally included. We shared our sentiments and opinions related to our work and even our personal lives. As a stubborn person, I seldom share. That time, I helped and volunteered to wash the dishes instead of joining them at the bonfire session. It took me time to finish the chore because I was dancing with upbeat songs that I downloaded prior to our trip – expecting that there was no signal there. And it’s true. I want to be of use and someone that anyone can rely on.

**Spending quality time**  
I would rather spend quality time with my loved ones, including my friends than focus on my phone. Sometimes, I prefer to talk with my friends in person and listen to them. That’s my way of saying or telling that they matter to me. Also, I have a short attention span, and I’m easily distracted, and that’s why I prefer to focus on the present with my friends and loves and those people who are close to my heart. Although I have my quiet time for myself, I usually hang out with them – swimming in the cute pool, singing ‘pang Dominggo’ songs, gossiping about work and other personal stuff, and trauma-dumping with one of my closest work friends. Being an introvert doesn’t mean I want to be alone all the time. Sometimes, I want to connect with people who have the same wavelength as mine and who understand my quirky, nonchalant, and noncommittal attitude at times.

**Appreciating the nature that surrounds us**  
What is the reason why people want to detox in the province rather than in the city? Our lives in the city are fast-paced. Everything happens so fast in the countryside; it’s a slow life there. I barely noticed how time goes by because it’s so slow. I don’t know how to explain it, but my inner thoughts don’t surface much in the countryside or any province. Instead, I focus on my surroundings – nature, actually. Lavalle PH had many bugs everywhere, even inside the house – our accommodation. I recognized a cornfield and plants, such as gumamela (with different colors), flower-bearing trees, fruit-bearing trees, palm trees, and more.

