---
layout: post
title: November whirlwind and December hopes/wreck
subtitle: 
cover-img: /assets/img/dummy.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/dummy.png
share-img: /assets/img/dummy.jpg
comments: false
tags: [sabaw thoughts, stream of consciousness, thoughts]
author: Sailer
---

*You have to love. You have to feel. It is the reason you are here on earth. You are here to risk your heart. You are here to be swallowed up.*  
*Andrea Kowch \- Reflections on Humanity, 2017\.*

***"Life will break you. Nobody can protect you from that, and living alone won't either, for solitude will also break you with its yearning. You have to love. You have to feel. It is the reason you are here on earth. You are here to risk your heart. You are here to be swallowed up. And when it happens that you are broken, or betrayed, or left, or hurt, or death you brushes near, let yourself sit by an apple tree and listen to the apples falling all around you in heaps, wasting their sweetness. Tell yourself you tasted as many as you could."***  
***\- Louise Erdrich***

Unexpected. I spent October, my birthday, with a bang \- work friends who celebrated my birthday, and I treated them with simple food. Then, as I was stressed out by the Halloween event and my mind was haywire \- something happened unexpectedly. October is an autumn season, and I like the autumn season \- the symbolism of 'fall'. I didn't know back then that I was going to 'fall' and embrace the falling leaves of riot orange, yellow, and brown. I constantly yearn to experience the beauty of autumn. It started when I saw the autumn season in a postcard from Ontario, Canada. I didn't know that seasons in temperate zones of the world amazed my eyes as a person coming from a tropical zone. The fall season reminds me of so many things, and soon enough, I will embrace the beauty of the fall season in every phase of my life. I am not an adventurous person, and before, I stayed in my comfort zone until I took that leap of faith even though I considered myself not strong enough for reality to suck in my soul. But I tried. I succeeded. I failed. But here I am, still living. There were lots of challenges and tribulations I went through with my life, and now, I was forced to dull my creativity for the sake of removing the clouds of melancholic nerves in my brain. And I have to let that go to express and let the colors of my imagination spill on papers and on art supplies that were stuck, accumulating dust. Then, I took the leap of faith again, an unexpected turn of events that surprised and shocked me to the core. But I know that I am ready to love and ready to experience all of those things that characters were talking about in the books I've read. But the reality overlaps the fantasy, and the world is changing. I don't know if it's safe to live here, but choosing this path is another kind of risk or a detour, or I don't know what's this called, but for the nth time, I want to live my life. Again.

*"You have to love. You have to feel. It is the reason you are here on earth. You are here to risk your heart. You are here to be swallowed up."*

Although, I want to stay where I am, in the middle of the forest, lying and waiting to be covered by vines and wild greens until my mind and my body decay. If only it were real, but it would be a figment of my borderline fantasy and reality. But the world wants me to experience what it offers. So I did, and I still do. I had and have to experience all of that. My past was full of memories of sadness, happiness, anxiety, fear, and everything that shaped me into who I am today. Instead of boxing myself in a corner, watching the changes in the world, taking a step outside of the box and letting the emotions, feelings, and thoughts in the Pandora's Box set free, to release the darkness and suffocation within my soul and within the walls that I built for so long to protect myself from hurting. But little did I know, I was also hurting behind the walls that I made. Until a friendship bloomed when I was still recovering from my depression, it was then that I realized that I was capable of treasuring a friendship that still lasted today. And I am capable of having a connection with these precious individuals despite the distance. We went through the ups and downs of our lives, and we are still here, alive and kicking. This connection with them enables me to be a better version of myself. I was inspired by how they view life, and I gained lessons and realizations from their perspectives. Some people can experience the worst, unimaginable experiences and challenges in life, but few remain and choose to be kind. I want to emulate that philosophy and attitude in my life \- that no matter the challenges and obstacles that I may face, I will face them with compassion and kindness.

*"And when it happens that you are broken, or betrayed, or left, or hurt, or death you brushes near, let yourself sit by an apple tree and listen to the apples falling all around you in heaps, wasting their sweetness. Tell yourself you tasted as many as you could."*

Happiness won't be happiness if we haven't gone through the terrible sadness of our lives. We have moments when heavy clouds and downpours drench our souls, cloaking us in misery and depression, yet after the ordeal, we let go of everything that weighs us down. If only it was that easy, but it wasn't; the shadows and demons would go to the surface and wreak havoc. Yet, we have the power to control it, suppress it, and even evade it. I've been hurt. I've been betrayed. Neglected. Yet, at times, I'm also stoic, indifferent, and hollow of emotions \- almost to the point of breaking down and shutting down. Numbness. But I wouldn't have been here if I hadn't gained those scars from the silent battlefields that I've faced.

So many tears have been shed secretly. And still, as the sun went up, I had to face another day of living and breathing in this ever-changing world that is hungry for your attention, from notifications, ads, and such. I got so tired of understanding and analyzing my thoughts and emotions as well as my circumstances in life. Every day is a test. Every day feels like I'm living to survive. The dullness creeps in and swallows me whole, but all of this is human. I'm a human being, capable of experiencing the sunshine and rain of my life. I have to let go of the weight, like releasing all of the liquids and pouring them down like rain. I have to feel the sunshine of my emotions and spread the scorching heat, releasing it and bringing warmth.

It's our right as humans to feel love. I have to love. I have to be hurt. I am here to risk my heart. I am here to be swallowed up again and again until I fortify my emotional and mental state, which can withstand any challenges. I must be a bamboo that can survive and still live up until the last drop of my lifeline.  
