---
layout: post
title: Bubblegum reads and the art of decluttering
subtitle: life goes on . . .
cover-img: /assets/img/dummy.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/dummy.png
share-img: /assets/img/dummy.jpg
comments: false
tags: [sabaw thoughts, stream of consciousness, thoughts]
author: Sailer
---

# Bubblegum reads

This is one year in addition to this unending cycle of rot, but perhaps this is also a way of acknowledging the sweets and bitters of the past year. It was like a blur for me, with no remarkable memories that much but I had my fair share of ups and downs. Mostly downs, by the way. There's that relapse and if only I made it through without the assistance of the chemical substances that influence the workings of my brain \- to the point of depleting of creativity and devoid of intense emotions and feelings. Sometimes, I don't know if I am making sense in my adult years or if I am adult enough by society's standards, but it doesn't matter anyway because I fall short when it comes to my standards. Yet life has its mysterious ways of making you realize that you're still a wounded child who just traversing the adulthood phase, and I am doing that. Perhaps parts of me are nowhere to be found now, and I don't know where to search them or how I can recover them in such a way that won't be that wondrous or even too difficult to grasp. It's just life. The world is not perfect anyway, and with the changing tides of technology and connections \- the soul can be depleted with everything, all of bad consumption that destroys sanity and peace of mind. The desire of a different world is vague and impossible, yet it can manifest \- in one's mind. A terrible escapism that channels your own desire and can cause alienation from everything.

Escapism. I stumbled upon a post that diminished my beloved reading choice when I was younger then, but reflecting on it also means how naive I was, believing in those ideals but ideals were just ideals as I grew up as an adult now. Bubblegum reads may be the reason why someone can keep going for a day. The anticipation and excitement were there, instead of just staring into the blank space of a boring youth. That was then. Diminishing and calling it bubblegum reads, the kind of reading experience that gives the taste for a while, and then it becomes bland, and then we throw away the bubblegum because we couldn't swallow it. But the reading experience was there and when I recalled those days, it evoked nostalgia and a momentary feeling of happiness \- realizing that those days filled the vacant space of my youth. 

We can't impose our views on others \- good or bad literature; we have our different opinions and viewpoints. Pop and mainstream fiction are bubblegum reads. Wattpad was filled with porn literature and ideals that weren't healthy for the youth but who am I to judge when I read romance novels when I was in my teens? But at that time, I was mindful of my reading choices. I stick to the authors who wrote wholesome and clean romance books instead of the mature ones that weren't fit for my age. The reason why I read those books was merely for entertainment and humor. It was when I discovered that I could write. Choosing the literature that you want to read requires discernment and discipline. You have to digest everything and separate the things that you don't believe in or do and those that reflect your core values. I love reading a good book that stimulates my brain, but I also love books that give me feel-good vibes, like romance comedies. The substance may be anyone's taste, especially for intellectuals and people who search for something that piques their interest and brains. Regardless, I love reading those books, even if they're bubblegum reads.

# Art of decluttering

Like my mind, my space is cluttered with anything \- from books to stationery. I like them like that, messy and cluttered like my brain cells and neurons. I read about minimalism and for a self-proclaimed and self-loathing artist, minimalism can be quite challenging for me to achieve because I'm sentimental and I am a bunny hopper when it comes to hobbies and interests \- so I accumulated useless things and then as a starter and never a finisher, I left them until they became dust in my eyes. I have to let go of the things that weren't of use so we can have more room for new things. But alas, there was so much excess baggage that it took me time to clean and declutter, throwing away things \- useless, toxic, and everything in the past. As a person who basks in nostalgia at times, I prefer the memory down the lane to holding onto things now. It's physical. It's there. But it was always a memory of yesterday, and things could have a soul if I think about it. However, later on, I have to let go of everything that hinders my growth. And there are doors waiting to be opened and a black hole that eats up useless things in your life. It's mainly our choice to let go and let some stay.

The art of decluttering may be challenging at times, knowing that you have to let go, even the memories that are part of the core, because you unlearn and learn new things. That's life, and you are changing every day; your decisions and your choices contribute to what you are today. it's fine to declutter and let go, literally and figuratively.   
