---
layout: post
title: The dullness of creativity and imagination, numbness of emotions 
subtitle: 
cover-img: /assets/img/dummy.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/dummy.png
share-img: /assets/img/dummy.jpg
comments: false
tags: [sabaw thoughts, stream of consciousness, thoughts]
author: Sailer
---

*How does it feel to drown in cold flames?*

Imagination and creativity will get you nowhere, and without these two, knowledge can be dull, only with black and white canvas. Unless when you let your imagination free, limitless and not bound with shackles of only the rigid structure of the system and what is supposed to be art or music, like others would have. i would love to trade everything \- even my sanity for a piece of that illusion where my imagination ran wild but it's too risky to go back to the borderline, knowing that I might slip off to the Neverland or the Rabbithole. These pharma-injected things dull my senses and my emotions. I don't have intense emotions that I usually feel every day and analyze; it's been subdued by the chemicals that balance the functions of my brain. The colors become dull and it's been days and months of catching the abstract ideas and concepts fading in the background and this soul becomes colorless with each passing second. The rollercoaster of emotions is out of order, and my emotions? Somewhat lifeless, I didn't think it was totally the pharma-injected things but I was so tired, dejected, and hopeless with life that it came to a point of accepting my fate as a miserable, tired, depressed, dramatic, and hopeless soul.

Do I deserve to experience all of that in order to realize that I am strong enough to withstand the storms? How does it feel to drown in cold flames? Flames that go bluer and bluer, the weight becomes heavy and the melancholy goes deeper and more profound. How does it feel to be this lifeless? Sometimes, your true self has been snatched by another entity, like an alien in your own skin. I don't know if I'm living right or I'm living wrong. The world is getting more convenient yet also generating unhealthy habits for people, and sitting right here in the city makes life more unbearable. The walls of the city can be soul-crushing, and I really want to escape. Badly. But the city can be a hotspot that sparks my creativity if I observe more and more attune to my five senses \- the falling of leaves from the trees beside the streets and people-watching, creating stories in my head based on their actions or interactions and the way they wear something. A pause. A brief pause for a while. Breathe. Maybe I can defy the effects of the injected things in my brain and have the ability to alter these chemicals into something that can turn on the faucet of colors. I miss those moments when I was so lost in my imagination and my typing/writing couldn't catch up.

In some instances, I connect the dots and read the signs, entertaining them and creating something that sparks my passion. I miss those days when I freely wrote anything \- without minding the grammar, structures, and all \- just plainly writing without the desire to be known. I don't know if I can go back to that room where I can be eccentric and unique and be myself as a writer or as an artist. Will it go to waste or can I come back with renewed vigor to start anew but I know, deep inside, that I can't go back to the things they are? So, I need to make room again to flourish as a writer or as an artist. Being in touch with passion and creativity is becoming a challenge, versus the injected things that attempt to suppress the colors of my mind. Although I want to stop, I will trade it for my sanity and balance, yet do I have to suppress my sensitivity and my intense emotions for the sake of being 'sane' every day? And balance? I badly want to finish my writing on the back burner. It's been there for months and years, accumulating dust and dirt. And I have to do something.

The swirling colors of the night, the contrasting light of blues and yellows, and the bright moonlight remind me of the colors of his mind. Others said that he was insane, but I somehow understood why, for being insane, he tried to be sane through colors, figures, and strokes that represent his thoughts, emotions, feelings, and his awe of nature around him. I want to take that pause from the shackles of everyday life nowadays, where I can be eccentric, free-spirited, unproblematic, happy, and away from adulting responsibilities. An escape where I can put back the colors of my mind \- quitting these pharma-inje ted meds that shut down my imagination and creativity.

I badly need alternatives to take back what's mine. I have to fire up my determination and motivation to succeed with what I'm planning to do—to live.  
