For everyone who knew the era of stories with emoticons, emojis, and onomatopoeia but readers didn't even care about the correctness of one's story but delved into the reading experience that satisfied their humor cravings and imagination, from well-loved characters with redeeming and non-redeemable qualities. The stories back then were feel-good stories, fit for teenagers who desire handsome/pretty, cool, sunshine-like, almost-stupid, damsel-in-distress, wallflower female leads and bad boy, obsessive, rude, playboy, sweet male leads. 

It was an era of innocence that has been snatched away with ideals and mature themes. As a spectator and observant reader/writer before, I noticed that my peers and those who were younger than me were exposed to books from pop fiction writers that weren't teen-friendly. The age bracket of readers is quite alarming for books that showcase mature themes that were quite disturbing for me as a writer. This may not be my cup of tea when writing romances. I knew that we couldn't impose our reading choices on people, but mindful reading is crucial if you need to reserve yourself from books that could influence you in different ways. 

I believe that being a writer of the modern era has a duty to deliver great stories that ripple an emotional impact, and inspire and educate the readers, especially for non-fiction writers. What could possibly be your role as a writer for your readers? Readers may don't care about the authors but as a reader, I care about the writer. Their backgrounds, character, the place where they live, and their circle may influence their writings. That's what I can testify to as a writer, too. My experience in life and my imagination can be reflected in my writings \- nonfiction or fiction. 

**What can be your role?** 

\- Your writings/stories can be a friend who comforts your readers. Your writings may be their escape from this 'hustle' world. Your stories may be refreshing, entertaining, and relaxing for some people. Your stories may evoke their emotions, challenge their thoughts, and even their viewpoints in life. 

\- As a writer, your role may be a role model for your fellow writers and readers. They might be budding writers, and your craft inspires them to create stories inside their heads. Your determination to update your stories and your willingness to share your ideas, concepts, and scenes with your stories can inspire and motivate other people to do the things they love. 

\- Being a writer with a reader base can influence their readers through their writings, and it can be a double-edged sword. That’s why research, the accuracy of certain information, and reality are crucial in writing your stories. For me, it’s important to stay grounded even though it’s a work of fiction. For younger readers, stories that aren’t suitable may affect their understanding of the world, and they can adapt the information they read, but it’s possible to segregate fantasy and reality, what’s entirely fiction and what’s based on reality. You have to separate the reality from the fantasy when reading books. Escapism can be dangerous when it entails false information and content unsuitable for certain readers \- almost out-of-touch, toxic, and problematic issues for other readers. 

Constructive criticism is natural for other readers who point out something problematic and disturbing in the books that they’ve read, and I am not an exception. I even judge my writing, my characters, the flow of my stories, and even how I write them. My writer self couldn’t match up with my reader self. 

On the other hand, a writer changes and transforms over the years. There are concepts, ideas, and beliefs that he/she no longer believes in. As a writer, I am too. I unlearn things that no longer resonate with my present self. The scenes that made me feel giddy before may be disgusting now, especially in real life. It’s fine because it’s a part of growing up. 

When you write for yourself \- channeling your thoughts and raw emotions without inhibitions on paper is empowering, knowing that you can be yourself without minding the mainstream writing system. If you inspire other people out there, you are doing something right. Being a writer in the modern era can be challenging when you want to gain readers, but readers will come \- when you put your heart into your writing. And when not, there’s always a supporter who appreciates and supports your writings. 

Writing stories comes with responsibilities. It resonates with your principles, core values, and perspectives in life. It may be different from your life now because creating stories might be your only escape from your life's hustle. It’s about sharing your world with other people out there or just merely sharing because you love writing. It’s your passion. 

It’s my passion. And I’m committed to it. My writing goals may change from time to time, but I really just want to inspire some readers out there, or someone can say to me that my writings are their comfort or a breather. It’s enough. 

There may be many writers who share the same concepts, plots, or ideas, but no one writes like you. And I believe that. 